Hi! It's me, Titku. I wanted to write about Choice a little.
Choice is vaguely inspired by a handful of things:
1. A lot of how N++ screwed around with its option menu, from *unlocking options as you progress through the game* to weird settings like "Numberwang" which just multiply your displayed progress percentage. Probably the key influence was the "Is It Art?" setting, which can be "yes", "no", or "maybe", which seems to do nothing, but actually reports back which setting you chose as sort of an impromptu survery of everyone who checked the option menu as to whether the game qualifies as art.
2. An old TIGSource April Fools' game, the name of which we no longer remember, where the gist was that the game is personalized among ~20 different versions depending on the first character of the player's username on their operating system. (Like a real version of the "Every copy of Super Mario 64 is personalized" meme.) For example: for us, the physics were tweaked so that the second room was impossible to beat. Others got luckier, but even then there was plenty of variance: some had floatier physics, some had faster enemies, some had harder rooms, some had pretentious roomnames, etc. This idea of separate experiences per player influenced Choice even before we realized Choice should probably be randomized for each new save file.
3. The way game mechanics combined with preexisting levels can influence community. If there ever were a community for this game, our goal would be to promote having different short sidepaths or even just slightly different challenges based on the player's Choice.
4. There was once a multiplayer flash game called Everybody Edits, where the "play" state and "edit" state are the exact same (though you can restrict players from being able to edit in your personal worlds). It had key blocks which had a keyhole that looked vaguely like a silhouette of a person. When we very first joined the game, we thought the key blocks meant that only specific "colors" of players could pass through/collide with them, and everyone was secretly assigned a color, for some reason. There were also several community suggestions that were somewhat like Choice, including a block that was solid or passable depending on which player appearance you used, or a block that was solid or passable *depending on what site you were playing on* (which, in all fairness, was a little ridiculous).
5. It may also have been inspired by difficulty settings?

I'm not sure when exactly we came up with Choice, but I believe it was some time between August and October of 2021. J4R was first initialized October 10th, 2021, with some lazy map loading code copy-and-pasted from our first LOVE project started on September 5th, 2021, with Choice's first known written appearance appearing in a "todo" file created October 17th, 2021. I'm also not 100% sure WHO came up with it, though it was probably Abagail, who started J4R as we know it with what's now the bare essentials of game.lua and ogmo.lua. A big thank-you to her!